So why are you here?
You might be here because you're story is somewhat like mine.
Or you may be here because you know that companies are looking for
people with strong management and leadership skills.
Or it could be one of the other following reasons I'm going to talk about now.
Are you afraid of leadership or management responsibilities?
And believe me, they can be very challenging responsibilities.
Your team will look to you for guidance and your management
will look to you as well to get things done.
Are you perplexed or unsure on just how to develop your new team?
Well I certainly was.
That is why I created this class,
and my other leadership and communication skills class,
to give you guys a head start.
Think of this material as a starting point that you can build upon.
Have you been asked to be a leader and not a doer?
That was tough for me.
Will I be giving up some software development skills
and fun for management duties?
Well, yes a little you will.
Was I okay with that?
Well, no not quite at first.
I grew into it or maybe matured into it.
Are you a software engineering expert,
yet feel like a fish out of water when it comes to managing a team?
Well maybe thinking of yourself as say, well a salamander and not a fish.
Salamanders live both in fresh water, developing software,
and on land, managing people.
Since salamanders are amphibians, all salamanders do require water,
developing software, for survival.
So that is what I did.
I became a manager, but still had a role in software development.
Now that worked for me, and that was in the short term.
But in the long term, I'm completely on land now, and actually I love it.
So based on how you answered some of those questions, this class may be for you.
Now let's see the target audience for this class.
First off,
anyone that answered yes to any of the previous slides
questions is a great candidate for this course.
This course targets software engineers who have reached a point in
their career when the business is expecting them to begin managing and
influencing others towards a common goal.
We software engineers have great technical skills,
but maybe lacking sufficient and essential management skills,
tools,
and processes that are required to meet the
performance expectations of your management,
your company, and possibly of yourself.
So this course is for technical business
professionals considering a manager role,
technical business professionals already in a manager role,
or anyone interested in developing and improving
their manager and management skills. Now let me share with you the course objectives.